                      Installing Phantasmal

This document assumes you've already got DGD installed and working,
and you've tested it with the Kernel MUDLib.  A source installation
is always preferable for debugging, but the important thing is that
DGD works and that you've got the source to the Kernel MUDLib.  If
you haven't gotten DGD up and running, check out
"http://phantasmal.sourceforge.net/DGD" and click on "Downloading,
Compiling and Configuring DGD".  The DGD mailing list can also help
you with these setup problems.

You'll want to install your Kernel MUDLib (the mud/kernel subdirectory
under your DGD installation) into the kernel subdirectory of
Phantasmal.  You'll also want to copy files from the Kernel MUDLib
mud/include/kernel subdirectory into Phantasmal's include/kernel (note
-- do *not* replace Phantasmal's config.h or other stuff in include's
top directory!).  Since the Kernel MUDLib changes with successive
versions of DGD you should use the one that comes with your DGD server
code and upgrade it when you upgrade DGD.  See the README files in
Phantasmal's "kernel" and "include/kernel" directories.

You may also want to copy the files from the DGD source tree in
doc/kfun to the Phantasmal directory under doc/kfun.

You'll need a version of DGD recent enough to have full support for
lightweight objects and multiple incoming network ports.  This MUDLib
has been tested with the DGD version(s) listed in TESTED_VERSIONS, and
the most recent 1.2.5X version is very likely to work with the most
recent version of Phantasmal.  Note that testing always uses the
latest versions, so it's possible that the lower-numbered DGD versions
in TESTED_VERSIONS don't work correctly any more, but they have with a
recent version of Phantasmal.  When in doubt, upgrade to the latest
DGD version listed in TESTED_VERSIONS, or to the most recent version
of DGD.

You'll need a .dgd file for Phantasmal.  Copy the phantasmal.dgd file
in your Phantasmal top-level directory and change the "directory"
entry to the correct one where you installed Phantasmal.  Change the
port number as well, if you want.  The binary port is for
administrator login if something goes drastically wrong.  You'll never
ordinarily use it.  You may also want to change the number of sectors,
called "swap_size", to be even more.  The number given should work
fine at startup, though.  Eventually you'll want to change more stuff
in the .dgd file, but you'll know enough about DGD to handle that
yourself by the time it's necessary.  In any case, *do* remember that
the path specified in phantasmal.dgd for the MUDLib's directory needs
to be absolute, not relative.  That means it should *start* with a
slash.

Also in your phantasmal.dgd file, consider having a look at
ed_tmpfile, swap_file and dump_file.  Each of those is a relative path
from your root Phantasmal MUDLib directory, the one containing this
file (INSTALL).  You may want to create a "../tmp" directory from
here, or change those paths to point somewhere else.

Once you have the MUD running, you should first log in as admin, then
make yourself a non-admin account to use.  When you make your new
account (referred to as "me" in the follwing paragraph) you can grant
it full adminstrative access by typing "%grant me access" and "%grant
me / full".  This will be your main administrator account.  You can
also trivially make as many new unprivileged accounts as you feel like
just by logging in without bothering to grant them access.  Note the
second grant command makes the account able to pretty much crash your
MUD or destroy your data if the account owner feels like it, so use it
sparingly and only with people you want to have full administrative
access.  There will eventually be a less-privileged admin class
suitable for builders, but that hasn't yet been implemented.

When you get started, type "help".  You may notice that the default
help is different for administrators and regular non-admin players.  I
try to keep all commands documented in the online help.  In case of
conflict or uncertainty, the command lists in
/usr/System/lib/wiztoollib.c and /data/phrase/user_cmds.unq are
definitive.

Further information on Phantasmal can be found in various locations.
The SourceForge forums are excellent for getting help.  The DGD
mailing list is also an appropriate place to ask general DGD and LPC
questions rather than Phantasmal-specific ones.  And you can find more
information linked from "http://phantasmal.sourceforge.net", or the
SourceForge project at "http://sourceforge.net/projects/phantasmal".
