                Localization in Phantasmal

Phantasmal tries to keep localization in the forefront.  While there
are certainly specific examples of things that localize poorly (like
Soundex) in it, these things are clearly marked as such and room left
open for equivalents from other languages.

However, it's worth pointing out that the Localization is, in many
ways, only skin deep.  Yes, Phrase structures are used for the vast
bulk of player visible strings.  Yes, objects are defined in ways that
make them especially easy to localize.  Yes, the current "automatic
fallback to English" is more a failure mode than planned to stick
around.

But the configuration files and much of the admin and builder
environment is basically only in English, and will almost certainly
stay that way for far longer than the rest of the MUD.  It's a
reflection of the prejudices (and abilities) of the MUDLib author, and
the admins basically always get short shrift in terms of the comfort
and convenience of their working environment.  Localization is
definitely an example of "comfort an convenience" rather than being
absolutely mandatory assuming a collaborative group of people
including a majority of English speakers.

Similarly, if the MUD were being run by French speakers I'd assume
they'd probably just translate the strings in the builder environment
in-place.  It's not as nice as localizing it properly but it pretty
much gets the job done and the builders don't need a pretty
environment.
